docs/v3.x/guides/databases.md, before:

# Databases

Strapi gives you the option to choose the most appropriate database for your project. It currently supports **PostgreSQL**, **MongoDB**, **SQLite**, **MySQL** and
**MariaDB**. The following documentation covers how to install these databases locally (for development purposes) and on various hosted or cloud server solutions (for staging or production purposes).

::: tip
Deploying **Strapi** itself is covered in the [Deployment Guide](../getting-started/deployment.md).
:::

## SQLite Installation

SQLite is the default ([Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md)) and recommended database to quickly create an app locally.

### Install SQLite locally

Simply use one of the following commands.

:::: tabs

::: tab yarn

```bash
yarn create strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

:::

::: tab npx

```bash
npx create-strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

:::

::::

This will create a new project and launch it in the browser.

::: tip
The [Quick Start Guide](../getting-started/quick-start.md) is a complete step-by-step tutorial
:::

## MongoDB Installation

### Install MongoDB locally

#### 1. Install MongoDB on your development environment

If you already have MongoDB installed locally and running as a background service, you may skip to [Install Strapi locally with MongoDB](#install-strapi-locally-with-mongodb). (If you have additional questions, please see the official [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/#tutorial-installation). )

Please complete the installation steps appropriate to your operating system.

:::: tabs

::: tab "Windows 10"

#### Install MongoDB on Windows 10

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Windows 10](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows/) environment (The Windows Sub-System for Linux (WSL) is unsupported by MongoDB):

1. Download the `MongoDB Community Edition Server` for Windows [here](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/community?jmp=docs). Select `MongoDB Community Server` and verify the options that match your computer. Then `Download` the package and follow the installation instructions to complete the process.

2. After successfully installing MongoDB, the MongoDB service is started. To begin using MongoDB, connect a mongo.exe shell to the running MongoDB instance.

```bash
"C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\4.0\bin\mongo.exe"
```

You can exit the MongoDB shell with `CTRL + C`.

You have now installed MongoDB for _Windows 10_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::: tab "Mac O/S"

#### Install MongoDB on Mac

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Mac](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/) developer environment:

1. Use `brew` to tap the official MongoDB formula repository and add it to the formula list:

```bash
brew tap mongodb/brew
```

2. Now install MongoDB

```bash
brew install mongodb-community@4.0
```

3. Get the mongod process running in order to connect and use MongoDB:

```bash
mongod --config /usr/local/etc/mongod.conf
```

You have now installed MongoDB for _Mac_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::: tab "Ubuntu 18.04"

#### Install MongoDB on Ubuntu

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Ubuntu](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-on-linux/) environment:

1. Import a public key to ensure your MongoDB is authentic:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv 9DA31620334BD75D9DCB49F368818C72E52529D4
```

2. Next, add the repository for 18.04. Repositories for other versions of Ubuntu are found [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/).

```bash
echo "deb [ arch=amd64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu bionic/mongodb-org/4.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list
```

3. Reload the local package database:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

4. Install the stable release MongoDB package

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
```

5. Get the `mongod` process running in order to connect and use MongoDB:

```bash
sudo service mongod start
```

6. Confirm the MongoDB status:

```bash
service mongod status
```

7. The last step is to enable automatically starting MongoDB when your computer boots:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable mongod
```

You have now installed MongoDB for _Linux_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::::

#### 2. Install Strapi locally with MongoDB

Follow these steps to create a Strapi project locally using the MongoDB database.

::: tip
MongoDB must already be running in the background.
:::

1. Create a new Strapi project

`Path: ./`

:::: tabs

::: tab yarn

```
yarn create strapi-app my-project
```

:::

::: tab npx

```
npx create-strapi-app my-project
```

:::

::::

- Use your `down arrow` key and select `Custom (manual settings)` and press `enter`:

```bash
? Choose your installation type
  Quickstart (recommended)
❯ Custom (manual settings)
```

- Select `MongoDB` and press `enter`:

```bash
? Choose your installation type Custom (manual settings)
? Choose your main database:
  SQLite
❯ MongoDB
  MySQL
  Postgres
```

- Press `enter` to select the remaining default options. It will look something like this:

```bash

? Choose your installation type Custom (manual settings)
? Choose your main database: MongoDB
? Database name: my-project
? Host: 127.0.0.1
? +srv connection: false
? Port (It will be ignored if you enable +srv): 27017
? Username:
? Password:
? Authentication database (Maybe "admin" or blank):
? Enable SSL connection: false

⏳ Testing database connection...
The app has been connected to the database successfully!

🏗  Application generation:
✔ Copy dashboard
✔ Installed dependencies.

👌 Your new application my-project is ready at /Users/david/Desktop/Projects/my-project.

⚡️ Change directory:
$ cd my-project

⚡️ Start application:
$ strapi develop

```

You have successfully installed Strapi with MongoDB on your local development environment. You are now ready to [create your first user](../getting-started/quick-start.md#_3-create-an-admin-user).

---

### Install on Atlas: MongoDB Atlas

Follow these steps to configure a local Strapi project to use a [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) free 512 MB account in production. (Please see [MongoDB Atlas Documentation](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/getting-started/) if you have any questions.)

- You must have already [created your Strapi project using MongoDB](databases.md#install-strapi-locally-with-mongodb).
- You must have already created a [free MongoDB Atlas account](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

#### 1. Log in to your account to create a **Project** and a **Cluster**

- First you need to `Create a new Project`.
- Then click `Build a Cluster`, from the options page:
  - Choose **AWS** as your **Cloud Provider & Region**.
  - Select a **Region**. (Note: some **Regions** do not have a _free tier_.)
  - In **Cluster Tier**, select **Shared Sandbox**, _Tier_ `MO`.
  - In **Cluster Name**, name your cluster.
- Click the green `Create Cluster` button. You will get a message that says, "_Your cluster is being created..._"

#### 2. Next, click on the `Database Access` in the left menu (under `Overview`):

- Click the green `+ ADD NEW USER` button:
  - Enter a `username`.
  - Enter a `password`.
  - Under `User Privileges` ensure **`Read and write to any database`** is selected. Then click `Add User` to save.

#### 3. Then `whitelist` your IP address. Click into `Network Access`, under `Security` in the left menu:

- Click the green `+ ADD IP ADDRESS`

  - Click `ADD CURRENT IP ADDRESS` or **manually** enter in an IP address to `whitelist`.
  - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Office`.
  - Then click the green `Confirm` button.
  - Delete the `0.0.0.0/0` configuration after testing the connection.

  ::: tip
  If for any reason you need to test the configuration or other aspect of your connection to the database, you may want to set back the `Allow Access from Anywhere`. Follow this steps:
  :::

  - Click the green `+ ADD IP ADDRESS`
    - Next add `0.0.0.0/0` in the `Whitelist Entry`. **Note:** In permanent projects you would configure this with the appropriate IP addresses.
    - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Anywhere`.
    - Click `Confirm`. Then wait until the status turns from `Pending` to `Active`.

  ::: tip
  If you are serving you Strapi project from a known IP Address then follow the following steps to `allow Network Access`.
  :::

  - **Manually** enter in an IP address to `whitelist`, for your Strapi server.
  - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Heroku Server`
  - Then click the green `Confirm` button.

#### 4. Retrieve database credentials

MongoDB Atlas automatically exposes the database credentials into a single environment variable accessible by your app. To locate it, follow these steps:

- Under `Atlas` in the left-hand, click on `Clusters`. This should take you to your `cluster`. Next, click `CONNECT` and then `Connect Your Application`.
- Under `1. Choose your driver version`, select **DRIVER** as `Node.js` and **VERSION** as `2.2.12 or later`.
  ::: warning
  You **must** use `Version: 2.2.12 or later`.
  :::
- This should show a **Connection String Only** similar to this:

`mongodb://paulbocuse:<password>@strapi-heroku-shard-00-00-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017,strapi-heroku-shard-00-01-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017,strapi-heroku-shard-00-02-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017/test?ssl=true&replicaSet=Strapi-Heroku-shard-0&authSource=admin&retryWrites=true&w=majority`

::: warning
Please note the `<password>` after your `username`. In this example, after `mongodb://paulbocuse:`. You will need to replace the `<password>` with the password you created earlier for this user in your **MongoDB Atlas** account.
:::

#### 5. Update and replace your existing `/database.js` config file for the appropriate environment (development | production).

Replace the contents of `/database.js` with the following and replace **< password >** with the password of the user of your database you created earlier:

`Path: ./config/database.js`.

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  defaultConnection: 'default',
  connections: {
    default: {
      connector: 'mongoose',
      settings: {
        uri: env('DATABASE_URI'),
      },
      options: {
        ssl: true,
      },
    },
  },
});
```

`Path: .env`

```
DATABASE_URI=mongodb://paulbocuse:<password>@strapidatabase-shard-00-00-fxxx6c.mongodb.net:27017,strapidatabase-shard-00-01-fxxxc.mongodb.net:27017,strapidatabase-shard-00-02-fxxxc.mongodb.net:27017/test?ssl=true&replicaSet=strapidatabase-shard-0&authSource=admin&retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

::: warning NOTE
The above configuration will create a database called `strapi`, the _default database_ Strapi sets for any **MongoDB** database. If you would like to name your database something else, add the following **key:value pair** into your **settings:** located in your `database.js` file.

`database: 'my-database-name'`

:::

::: danger WARNING
We recommend replacing sensitive (eg. "URI string" above) information in your database configuration files before uploading your project to a public repository such as GitHub. For more information about using environment variables, please read [configurations](../concepts/configurations.md).

:::

You are now ready use Strapi locally or to deploy your project to an external hosting provider and use MongoDB Atlas as your database server.

Commit message:

DOC: Reference the configuration options for SQL databases from the Databases guide (#8240)
Signed-off-by: Thomas P <TPXP@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/v3.x/guides/databases.md, after:

# Databases

Strapi gives you the option to choose the most appropriate database for your project. It currently supports **PostgreSQL**, **MongoDB**, **SQLite**, **MySQL** and
**MariaDB**. The following documentation covers how to install these databases locally (for development purposes) and on various hosted or cloud server solutions (for staging or production purposes).

::: tip
Deploying **Strapi** itself is covered in the [Deployment Guide](../getting-started/deployment.md).
:::

## SQLite Installation

SQLite is the default ([Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md)) and recommended database to quickly create an app locally.

### Install SQLite locally

Simply use one of the following commands.

:::: tabs

::: tab yarn

```bash
yarn create strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

:::

::: tab npx

```bash
npx create-strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

:::

::::

This will create a new project and launch it in the browser.

::: tip
The [Quick Start Guide](../getting-started/quick-start.md) is a complete step-by-step tutorial
:::

## Other SQL Databases (PostgreSQL, MySQL)
Refer to the [configuration section](../concepts/configurations.md#database) for all supported options to setup Strapi with your SQL database.

::: tip
Most cloud service providers offer a managed SQL database service, which is a hassle-free way to get your database up and running. To get up and running locally, you might want to try using a Docker container.
:::

## MongoDB Installation

### Install MongoDB locally

#### 1. Install MongoDB on your development environment

If you already have MongoDB installed locally and running as a background service, you may skip to [Install Strapi locally with MongoDB](#install-strapi-locally-with-mongodb). (If you have additional questions, please see the official [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/#tutorial-installation). )

Please complete the installation steps appropriate to your operating system.

:::: tabs

::: tab "Windows 10"

#### Install MongoDB on Windows 10

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Windows 10](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows/) environment (The Windows Sub-System for Linux (WSL) is unsupported by MongoDB):

1. Download the `MongoDB Community Edition Server` for Windows [here](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/community?jmp=docs). Select `MongoDB Community Server` and verify the options that match your computer. Then `Download` the package and follow the installation instructions to complete the process.

2. After successfully installing MongoDB, the MongoDB service is started. To begin using MongoDB, connect a mongo.exe shell to the running MongoDB instance.

```bash
"C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\4.0\bin\mongo.exe"
```

You can exit the MongoDB shell with `CTRL + C`.

You have now installed MongoDB for _Windows 10_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::: tab "Mac O/S"

#### Install MongoDB on Mac

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Mac](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/) developer environment:

1. Use `brew` to tap the official MongoDB formula repository and add it to the formula list:

```bash
brew tap mongodb/brew
```

2. Now install MongoDB

```bash
brew install mongodb-community@4.0
```

3. Get the mongod process running in order to connect and use MongoDB:

```bash
mongod --config /usr/local/etc/mongod.conf
```

You have now installed MongoDB for _Mac_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::: tab "Ubuntu 18.04"

#### Install MongoDB on Ubuntu

Follow these steps to [install MongoDB onto your Ubuntu](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-on-linux/) environment:

1. Import a public key to ensure your MongoDB is authentic:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv 9DA31620334BD75D9DCB49F368818C72E52529D4
```

2. Next, add the repository for 18.04. Repositories for other versions of Ubuntu are found [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/).

```bash
echo "deb [ arch=amd64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu bionic/mongodb-org/4.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.0.list
```

3. Reload the local package database:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

4. Install the stable release MongoDB package

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org
```

5. Get the `mongod` process running in order to connect and use MongoDB:

```bash
sudo service mongod start
```

6. Confirm the MongoDB status:

```bash
service mongod status
```

7. The last step is to enable automatically starting MongoDB when your computer boots:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable mongod
```

You have now installed MongoDB for _Linux_. You are now ready to [install Strapi with MongoDB locally](#install-strapi-with-mongodb).

:::

::::

#### 2. Install Strapi locally with MongoDB

Follow these steps to create a Strapi project locally using the MongoDB database.

::: tip
MongoDB must already be running in the background.
:::

1. Create a new Strapi project

`Path: ./`

:::: tabs

::: tab yarn

```
yarn create strapi-app my-project
```

:::

::: tab npx

```
npx create-strapi-app my-project
```

:::

::::

- Use your `down arrow` key and select `Custom (manual settings)` and press `enter`:

```bash
? Choose your installation type
  Quickstart (recommended)
❯ Custom (manual settings)
```

- Select `MongoDB` and press `enter`:

```bash
? Choose your installation type Custom (manual settings)
? Choose your main database:
  SQLite
❯ MongoDB
  MySQL
  Postgres
```

- Press `enter` to select the remaining default options. It will look something like this:

```bash

? Choose your installation type Custom (manual settings)
? Choose your main database: MongoDB
? Database name: my-project
? Host: 127.0.0.1
? +srv connection: false
? Port (It will be ignored if you enable +srv): 27017
? Username:
? Password:
? Authentication database (Maybe "admin" or blank):
? Enable SSL connection: false

⏳ Testing database connection...
The app has been connected to the database successfully!

🏗  Application generation:
✔ Copy dashboard
✔ Installed dependencies.

👌 Your new application my-project is ready at /Users/david/Desktop/Projects/my-project.

⚡️ Change directory:
$ cd my-project

⚡️ Start application:
$ strapi develop

```

You have successfully installed Strapi with MongoDB on your local development environment. You are now ready to [create your first user](../getting-started/quick-start.md#_3-create-an-admin-user).

---

### Install on Atlas: MongoDB Atlas

Follow these steps to configure a local Strapi project to use a [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) free 512 MB account in production. (Please see [MongoDB Atlas Documentation](https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/getting-started/) if you have any questions.)

- You must have already [created your Strapi project using MongoDB](databases.md#install-strapi-locally-with-mongodb).
- You must have already created a [free MongoDB Atlas account](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

#### 1. Log in to your account to create a **Project** and a **Cluster**

- First you need to `Create a new Project`.
- Then click `Build a Cluster`, from the options page:
  - Choose **AWS** as your **Cloud Provider & Region**.
  - Select a **Region**. (Note: some **Regions** do not have a _free tier_.)
  - In **Cluster Tier**, select **Shared Sandbox**, _Tier_ `MO`.
  - In **Cluster Name**, name your cluster.
- Click the green `Create Cluster` button. You will get a message that says, "_Your cluster is being created..._"

#### 2. Next, click on the `Database Access` in the left menu (under `Overview`):

- Click the green `+ ADD NEW USER` button:
  - Enter a `username`.
  - Enter a `password`.
  - Under `User Privileges` ensure **`Read and write to any database`** is selected. Then click `Add User` to save.

#### 3. Then `whitelist` your IP address. Click into `Network Access`, under `Security` in the left menu:

- Click the green `+ ADD IP ADDRESS`

  - Click `ADD CURRENT IP ADDRESS` or **manually** enter in an IP address to `whitelist`.
  - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Office`.
  - Then click the green `Confirm` button.
  - Delete the `0.0.0.0/0` configuration after testing the connection.

  ::: tip
  If for any reason you need to test the configuration or other aspect of your connection to the database, you may want to set back the `Allow Access from Anywhere`. Follow this steps:
  :::

  - Click the green `+ ADD IP ADDRESS`
    - Next add `0.0.0.0/0` in the `Whitelist Entry`. **Note:** In permanent projects you would configure this with the appropriate IP addresses.
    - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Anywhere`.
    - Click `Confirm`. Then wait until the status turns from `Pending` to `Active`.

  ::: tip
  If you are serving you Strapi project from a known IP Address then follow the following steps to `allow Network Access`.
  :::

  - **Manually** enter in an IP address to `whitelist`, for your Strapi server.
  - Leave a comment to label this IP Address. E.g. `Heroku Server`
  - Then click the green `Confirm` button.

#### 4. Retrieve database credentials

MongoDB Atlas automatically exposes the database credentials into a single environment variable accessible by your app. To locate it, follow these steps:

- Under `Atlas` in the left-hand, click on `Clusters`. This should take you to your `cluster`. Next, click `CONNECT` and then `Connect Your Application`.
- Under `1. Choose your driver version`, select **DRIVER** as `Node.js` and **VERSION** as `2.2.12 or later`.
  ::: warning
  You **must** use `Version: 2.2.12 or later`.
  :::
- This should show a **Connection String Only** similar to this:

`mongodb://paulbocuse:<password>@strapi-heroku-shard-00-00-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017,strapi-heroku-shard-00-01-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017,strapi-heroku-shard-00-02-oxxxo.mongodb.net:27017/test?ssl=true&replicaSet=Strapi-Heroku-shard-0&authSource=admin&retryWrites=true&w=majority`

::: warning
Please note the `<password>` after your `username`. In this example, after `mongodb://paulbocuse:`. You will need to replace the `<password>` with the password you created earlier for this user in your **MongoDB Atlas** account.
:::

#### 5. Update and replace your existing `/database.js` config file for the appropriate environment (development | production).

Replace the contents of `/database.js` with the following and replace **< password >** with the password of the user of your database you created earlier:

`Path: ./config/database.js`.

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  defaultConnection: 'default',
  connections: {
    default: {
      connector: 'mongoose',
      settings: {
        uri: env('DATABASE_URI'),
      },
      options: {
        ssl: true,
      },
    },
  },
});
```

`Path: .env`

```
DATABASE_URI=mongodb://paulbocuse:<password>@strapidatabase-shard-00-00-fxxx6c.mongodb.net:27017,strapidatabase-shard-00-01-fxxxc.mongodb.net:27017,strapidatabase-shard-00-02-fxxxc.mongodb.net:27017/test?ssl=true&replicaSet=strapidatabase-shard-0&authSource=admin&retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

::: warning NOTE
The above configuration will create a database called `strapi`, the _default database_ Strapi sets for any **MongoDB** database. If you would like to name your database something else, add the following **key:value pair** into your **settings:** located in your `database.js` file.

`database: 'my-database-name'`

:::

::: danger WARNING
We recommend replacing sensitive (eg. "URI string" above) information in your database configuration files before uploading your project to a public repository such as GitHub. For more information about using environment variables, please read [configurations](../concepts/configurations.md).

:::

You are now ready use Strapi locally or to deploy your project to an external hosting provider and use MongoDB Atlas as your database server.
