docs/3.0.0-beta.x/migration-guide/migration-guide-beta.18-to-beta.19.md, before:

# Migration guide from beta.18.x to beta.19

Upgrading your Strapi application to `v3.0.0-beta.19`.

**Make sure your server is not running until then end of the migration**

## Upgrading your dependencies

Start by upgrading your dependencies. Make sure to use exact versions.

Update your package.json accordingly:

```json
{
  //...
  "dependencies": {
    "strapi": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-admin": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-connector-bookshelf": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-content-manager": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-content-type-builder": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-email": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-graphql": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-upload": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-users-permissions": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-utils": "3.0.0-beta.19"
  }
}
```

Then run either `yarn install` or `npm install`.

## Policies syntax change

## Rebuilding your administration panel

Now delete the `.cache` and `build` folders. Then run `yarn develop`.

Commit message:

Update policy documentations and add migration guide
Signed-off-by: Alexandre Bodin <bodin.alex@gmail.com>

docs/3.0.0-beta.x/migration-guide/migration-guide-beta.18-to-beta.19.md, after:

# Migration guide from beta.18.x to beta.19

Upgrading your Strapi application to `v3.0.0-beta.19`.

**Make sure your server is not running until then end of the migration**

## Upgrading your dependencies

Start by upgrading your dependencies. Make sure to use exact versions.

Update your package.json accordingly:

```json
{
  //...
  "dependencies": {
    "strapi": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-admin": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-connector-bookshelf": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-content-manager": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-content-type-builder": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-email": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-graphql": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-upload": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-plugin-users-permissions": "3.0.0-beta.19",
    "strapi-utils": "3.0.0-beta.19"
  }
}
```

Then run either `yarn install` or `npm install`.

## Policies syntax change

We decided to change the policies naming convention to match with the future naming convetion we will be using throughout the project.

**Before**

- Global policy: `global.{policy}`.
- Plugin policy: `plugins.{pluginName}.{policy}`.

**After**

- Global policy: `global::{policy}`.
- Plugin policy: `plugins::{pluginName}.{policy}`.

We are also introductin application naming so you can access an api policy easily or reference it absolutely when the context doesn't allow forto find out directly.

You can now reference a policy located at `./api/{apiName}/config/policies/{policy}` with the following syntax: `{apiName}.{policy}`.

Although we do not recommend it (error prone), you can still access a local policy with the syntax `{policy}` . This syntax will only allow access to a policy declared in the api you are referencing it from. (e.g, polici in `restaurant` api and route in `restaurant` api only).

## Rebuilding your administration panel

Now delete the `.cache` and `build` folders. Then run `yarn develop`.
