docs/3.0.0-beta.x/migration-guide/README.md, before:

# Migrations guides

Please also refer to the following [documentation](../guides/update-version.md) for a better understanding of how to update your project

## Migrating from Beta ?

Read the [Migration guide from beta.20+ to stable](migration-guide-beta.20-to-3.0.0.md).

## Beta guides

- [Migration guide from beta.15 to beta.16](migration-guide-beta.15-to-beta.16.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.16+ to beta.17.4](migration-guide-beta.16-to-beta.17.4.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.17+ to beta.18](migration-guide-beta.17-to-beta.18.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.18 to beta.19](migration-guide-beta.18-to-beta.19.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.19+ to beta.19.4](migration-guide-beta.19-to-beta.19.4.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.19.4+ to beta.20](migration-guide-beta.19-to-beta.20.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.20+ to stable](migration-guide-beta.20-to-3.0.0.md)

## Alpha guides

- [Migrating from v1 to v3](migration-guide-1-to-3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.7.4 to alpha.8](migration-guide-alpha.7.4-to-alpha.8.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.8 to alpha.9](migration-guide-alpha.8-to-alpha.9.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.9 to alpha.10](migration-guide-alpha.9-to-alpha.10.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.10 to alpha.11](migration-guide-alpha.10-to-alpha.11.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.11 to alpha.12](migration-guide-alpha.11-to-alpha.12.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.1 to alpha.12.2](migration-guide-alpha.12.1-to-alpha.12.2.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.2 to alpha.12.3](migration-guide-alpha.12.2-to-alpha.12.3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.3 to alpha.12.4](migration-guide-alpha.12.3-to-alpha.12.4.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.4 to alpha.12.5](migration-guide-alpha.12.4-to-alpha.12.5.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.5 to alpha.12.6](migration-guide-alpha.12.5-to-alpha.12.6.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.6 to alpha.12.7](migration-guide-alpha.12.6-to-alpha.12.7.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.7 to alpha.13](migration-guide-alpha.12.7-to-alpha.13.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.13 to alpha.13.1](migration-guide-alpha.13-to-alpha.13.1.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.13.1 to alpha.14](migration-guide-alpha.13.1-to-alpha.14.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14 to alpha.14.1](migration-guide-alpha.14-to-alpha.14.1.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.1 to alpha.14.2](migration-guide-alpha.14.1-to-alpha.14.2.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.2 to alpha.14.3](migration-guide-alpha.14.2-to-alpha.14.3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.3 to alpha.14.4](migration-guide-alpha.14.3-to-alpha.14.4.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.4 to alpha.14.5](migration-guide-alpha.14.4-to-alpha.14.5.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.5 to alpha.15](migration-guide-alpha.14.5-to-alpha.15.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.15 to alpha.16](migration-guide-alpha.15-to-alpha.16.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.16 to alpha.17](migration-guide-alpha.16-to-alpha.17.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.17 to alpha.18](migration-guide-alpha.17-to-alpha.18.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.18 to alpha.19](migration-guide-alpha.18-to-alpha.19.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.19 to alpha.20](migration-guide-alpha.19-to-alpha.20.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.20 to alpha.21](migration-guide-alpha.20-to-alpha.21.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.21 to alpha.22](migration-guide-alpha.21-to-alpha.22.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.22 to alpha.23](migration-guide-alpha.22-to-alpha.23.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.23 to alpha.24](migration-guide-alpha.23-to-alpha.24.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.24 to alpha.25](migration-guide-alpha.24-to-alpha.25.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.25 to alpha.26](migration-guide-alpha.25-to-alpha.26.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.26 to beta](migration-guide-alpha.26-to-beta.md)

Commit message:

Add v3.x and remove alpha docs (#6344)
Signed-off-by: Alexandre Bodin <bodin.alex@gmail.com>

docs/3.0.0-beta.x/migration-guide/README.md, after:

# Migrations guides

## Migrating from Alpha ?

Read the [Migration guide from alpha.26 to beta](migration-guide-alpha.26-to-beta.md) first then read the [Beta migration guides](#beta-guides)

## Beta guides

- [Migration guide from beta.15 to beta.16](migration-guide-beta.15-to-beta.16.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.16+ to beta.17.4](migration-guide-beta.16-to-beta.17.4.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.17+ to beta.18](migration-guide-beta.17-to-beta.18.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.18 to beta.19](migration-guide-beta.18-to-beta.19.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.19+ to beta.19.4](migration-guide-beta.19-to-beta.19.4.md)
- [Migration guide from beta.19.4+ to beta.20](migration-guide-beta.19-to-beta.20.md)

## Alpha guides

- [Migrating from v1 to v3](migration-guide-1-to-3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.7.4 to alpha.8](migration-guide-alpha.7.4-to-alpha.8.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.8 to alpha.9](migration-guide-alpha.8-to-alpha.9.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.9 to alpha.10](migration-guide-alpha.9-to-alpha.10.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.10 to alpha.11](migration-guide-alpha.10-to-alpha.11.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.11 to alpha.12](migration-guide-alpha.11-to-alpha.12.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.1 to alpha.12.2](migration-guide-alpha.12.1-to-alpha.12.2.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.2 to alpha.12.3](migration-guide-alpha.12.2-to-alpha.12.3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.3 to alpha.12.4](migration-guide-alpha.12.3-to-alpha.12.4.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.4 to alpha.12.5](migration-guide-alpha.12.4-to-alpha.12.5.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.5 to alpha.12.6](migration-guide-alpha.12.5-to-alpha.12.6.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.6 to alpha.12.7](migration-guide-alpha.12.6-to-alpha.12.7.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.12.7 to alpha.13](migration-guide-alpha.12.7-to-alpha.13.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.13 to alpha.13.1](migration-guide-alpha.13-to-alpha.13.1.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.13.1 to alpha.14](migration-guide-alpha.13.1-to-alpha.14.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14 to alpha.14.1](migration-guide-alpha.14-to-alpha.14.1.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.1 to alpha.14.2](migration-guide-alpha.14.1-to-alpha.14.2.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.2 to alpha.14.3](migration-guide-alpha.14.2-to-alpha.14.3.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.3 to alpha.14.4](migration-guide-alpha.14.3-to-alpha.14.4.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.4 to alpha.14.5](migration-guide-alpha.14.4-to-alpha.14.5.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.14.5 to alpha.15](migration-guide-alpha.14.5-to-alpha.15.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.15 to alpha.16](migration-guide-alpha.15-to-alpha.16.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.16 to alpha.17](migration-guide-alpha.16-to-alpha.17.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.17 to alpha.18](migration-guide-alpha.17-to-alpha.18.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.18 to alpha.19](migration-guide-alpha.18-to-alpha.19.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.19 to alpha.20](migration-guide-alpha.19-to-alpha.20.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.20 to alpha.21](migration-guide-alpha.20-to-alpha.21.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.21 to alpha.22](migration-guide-alpha.21-to-alpha.22.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.22 to alpha.23](migration-guide-alpha.22-to-alpha.23.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.23 to alpha.24](migration-guide-alpha.23-to-alpha.24.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.24 to alpha.25](migration-guide-alpha.24-to-alpha.25.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.25 to alpha.26](migration-guide-alpha.25-to-alpha.26.md)
- [Migration guide from alpha.26 to beta](migration-guide-alpha.26-to-beta.md)
