README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://strapi.io">
    <img src="https://blog.strapi.io/content/images/2017/10/logo.png" width="318px" alt="Strapi logo" />
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">API creation made simple, secure and fast.</h3>
<p align="center">The most advanced open-source headless CMS to build powerful APIs with no effort.</p>
<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/strapi">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/strapi/beta.svg" alt="NPM Version" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/strapi">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/strapi.svg" alt="Monthly download on NPM" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/strapi/strapi">
    <img src="https://travis-ci.org/strapi/strapi.svg?branch=master" alt="Travis Build Status" />
  </a>
  <a href="http://slack.strapi.io">
    <img src="https://slack.strapi.io/badge.svg" alt="Strapi on Slack" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://strapi.io">
    <img src="https://strapi.io/assets/images/readme.png" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>

Strapi is a free and open source headless CMS delivering your content anywhere you need.

- **Keep control over your data**. With Strapi, you know where your data is stored, and you keep full control at all times.
- **Self hosted**. You can host and scale Strapi projects the way you want. You can choose any hosting platform you want: AWS, Netlify, Heroku, a VPS, or a dedicated server. You can scale as you grow, 100% independent.
- **Database agnostic**. You can choose the database you prefer. Strapi works with SQL & NoSQL databases: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite.
- **Customizable**. You can quickly build your logic by fully customizing APIs, routes, or plugins to fit your needs perfectly.

## Getting Started

<a href="https://strapi.io/documentation/3.0.0-beta.x/getting-started/quick-start.html" target="_blank">Read the Getting Started tutorial</a> or follow the steps below:

### ⏳ Installation

Install Strapi with this **Quickstart** command to install and create a Strapi project instantly:

- (Use **yarn** to install the Strapi project (recommended). [Install yarn with these docs](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/).)

```bash
yarn create strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

**or**

- (Use npm/npx to install the Strapi project.)

```bash
npx create-strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

This command generates a brand new project with the default features (authentication, permissions, content management, content type builder & file upload).

Enjoy 🎉

### 🖐 Requirements

Complete installation requirements can be found in the documentation under <a href="https://strapi.io/documentation/3.0.0-beta.x/getting-started/install-requirements.html">Installation Requirements</a>.

**Supported operating systems**:

- Ubuntu 18.04/Debian 9.x
- CentOS/RHEL 8
- Mac O/S Mojave
- Windows 10
- Docker - [Docker-Repo](https://github.com/strapi/strapi-docker)

(Please note that Strapi may work on other operating systems, but these are not tested nor officially supported at this time.)

**Node:**

- NodeJS >= 10.x
- NPM >= 6.x

**Database:**

- MongoDB >= 3.6
- MySQL >= 5.6
- MariaDB >= 10.1
- PostgreSQL >= 10
- SQLite >= 3

**We recommend always using the latest version of Strapi to start your new projects**.

This project is currently in **Beta**. Significant breaking changes are unlikely at this stage of the project, but using the latest version of Strapi ensures you have all the latest features and updates. New releases are usually shipped every two weeks to fix/enhance the project.

## Features

- **Modern Admin Panel:** Elegant, entirely customizable, and a fully extensible admin panel.
- **Secure by default:** Reusable policies, CSRF, CORS, P3P, Xframe, XSS, and more.
- **Plugins Oriented:** Install auth systems, content management, custom plugins, and more, in seconds.
- **Blazing Fast:** Built on top of Node.js, Strapi delivers impressive performance.
- **Front-end Agnostic:** Use any front-end framework, for example, React, Vue, Angular, mobile apps, or even IoT.
- **Powerful CLI:** Scaffold projects and APIs on the fly.
- **SQL & NoSQL databases:** Works with MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite.

**[See more on our website](https://strapi.io/overview)**.

### Try on Heroku

You can also give it a try using Heroku in one click!

<a href="https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/strapi/strapi-heroku-app">
  <img src="https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy">
</a>

Be aware that the Content Type Builder won't work due to the restriction of writing files on the Heroku servers. If you would like to change/edit/add Content Types, you need to follow these steps:

1. Click the button above and deploy your app
2. Clone that repo by using `heroku git:clone -a` followed by your repo's name
3. Go into the cloned projects' folder using `cd` followed by your repo's name
4. Add the Heroku boilerplate as a remote by running `git remote add boilerplate https://github.com/strapi/strapi-heroku-app`
5. Pull from this new origin by running `git pull boilerplate master`

## Contributing

Please read our [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting a Pull Request to the project.

## Support

For more information on the upcoming version, please take a look at our [ROADMAP](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/projects).

#### Community support

For general help using Strapi, please refer to [the official Strapi documentation](https://strapi.io/documentation/). For additional help, you can use one of these channels to ask a question:

- [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/strapi)
- [Slack](http://slack.strapi.io) (Highly recommended for faster support)
- [Spectrum](https://spectrum.chat/strapi)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi) (Bug reports, contributions)
- [ProductBoard](https://portal.productboard.com/strapi/tabs/2-under-consideration) (Roadmap, Feature requests)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs) (Get the news fast)
- [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/Strapi-616063331867161)
- [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/strapi) (Learn from Video Tutorials)

## Migration

Follow our [migration guides](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/wiki) on the wiki to keep your projects up-to-date.

## Roadmap

Check out our [roadmap](https://portal.productboard.com/strapi) to get informed of the latest features released and the upcoming ones. You may also give us insights and vote for a specific feature.

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE.md) Copyright (c) 2015-2019 [Strapi Solutions](https://strapi.io/).

Commit message:

removed an unnecessary reference to the roadmap- the roadmap was referenced twice, a tiny restructure regarding the Community Support section and add an explanation about SQLite being using in the Quickstart

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://strapi.io">
    <img src="https://blog.strapi.io/content/images/2017/10/logo.png" width="318px" alt="Strapi logo" />
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">API creation made simple, secure and fast.</h3>
<p align="center">The most advanced open-source headless CMS to build powerful APIs with no effort.</p>
<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/strapi">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/strapi/beta.svg" alt="NPM Version" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/strapi">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/strapi.svg" alt="Monthly download on NPM" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/strapi/strapi">
    <img src="https://travis-ci.org/strapi/strapi.svg?branch=master" alt="Travis Build Status" />
  </a>
  <a href="http://slack.strapi.io">
    <img src="https://slack.strapi.io/badge.svg" alt="Strapi on Slack" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://strapi.io">
    <img src="https://strapi.io/assets/images/readme.png" />
  </a>
</p>

<br>

Strapi is a free and open source headless CMS delivering your content anywhere you need.

- **Keep control over your data**. With Strapi, you know where your data is stored, and you keep full control at all times.
- **Self hosted**. You can host and scale Strapi projects the way you want. You can choose any hosting platform you want: AWS, Netlify, Heroku, a VPS, or a dedicated server. You can scale as you grow, 100% independent.
- **Database agnostic**. You can choose the database you prefer. Strapi works with SQL & NoSQL databases: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite.
- **Customizable**. You can quickly build your logic by fully customizing APIs, routes, or plugins to fit your needs perfectly.

## Getting Started

<a href="https://strapi.io/documentation/3.0.0-beta.x/getting-started/quick-start.html" target="_blank">Read the Getting Started tutorial</a> or follow the steps below:

### ⏳ Installation

Install Strapi with this **Quickstart** command to install and create a Strapi project instantly:

- (Use **yarn** to install the Strapi project (recommended). [Install yarn with these docs](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/).)

```bash
yarn create strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

**or**

- (Use npm/npx to install the Strapi project.)

```bash
npx create-strapi-app my-project --quickstart
```

This command generates a brand new project with the default features (authentication, permissions, content management, content type builder & file upload). The **Quickstart** command installs Strapi using a **SQLite** database which is used for prototyping in development.

Enjoy 🎉

### 🖐 Requirements

Complete installation requirements can be found in the documentation under <a href="https://strapi.io/documentation/3.0.0-beta.x/getting-started/install-requirements.html">Installation Requirements</a>.

**Supported operating systems**:

- Ubuntu 18.04/Debian 9.x
- CentOS/RHEL 8
- Mac O/S Mojave
- Windows 10
- Docker - [Docker-Repo](https://github.com/strapi/strapi-docker)

(Please note that Strapi may work on other operating systems, but these are not tested nor officially supported at this time.)

**Node:**

- NodeJS >= 10.x
- NPM >= 6.x

**Database:**

- MongoDB >= 3.6
- MySQL >= 5.6
- MariaDB >= 10.1
- PostgreSQL >= 10
- SQLite >= 3

**We recommend always using the latest version of Strapi to start your new projects**.

This project is currently in **Beta**. Significant breaking changes are unlikely at this stage of the project, but using the latest version of Strapi ensures you have all the latest features and updates. New releases are usually shipped every two weeks to fix/enhance the project.

## Features

- **Modern Admin Panel:** Elegant, entirely customizable, and a fully extensible admin panel.
- **Secure by default:** Reusable policies, CSRF, CORS, P3P, Xframe, XSS, and more.
- **Plugins Oriented:** Install auth systems, content management, custom plugins, and more, in seconds.
- **Blazing Fast:** Built on top of Node.js, Strapi delivers impressive performance.
- **Front-end Agnostic:** Use any front-end framework, for example, React, Vue, Angular, mobile apps, or even IoT.
- **Powerful CLI:** Scaffold projects and APIs on the fly.
- **SQL & NoSQL databases:** Works with MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite.

**[See more on our website](https://strapi.io/overview)**.

### Try on Heroku

You can also give it a try using Heroku in one click!

<a href="https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/strapi/strapi-heroku-app">
  <img src="https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy">
</a>

Be aware that the Content Type Builder won't work due to the restriction of writing files on the Heroku servers. If you would like to change/edit/add Content Types, you need to follow these steps:

1. Click the button above and deploy your app
2. Clone that repo by using `heroku git:clone -a` followed by your repo's name
3. Go into the cloned projects' folder using `cd` followed by your repo's name
4. Add the Heroku boilerplate as a remote by running `git remote add boilerplate https://github.com/strapi/strapi-heroku-app`
5. Pull from this new origin by running `git pull boilerplate master`

## Contributing

Please read our [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting a Pull Request to the project.

## Community support

For general help using Strapi, please refer to [the official Strapi documentation](https://strapi.io/documentation/). For additional help, you can use one of these channels to ask a question:

- [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/strapi)
- [Slack](http://slack.strapi.io) (Highly recommended for faster support)
- [Spectrum](https://spectrum.chat/strapi)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi) (Bug reports, contributions)
- [ProductBoard](https://portal.productboard.com/strapi/tabs/2-under-consideration) (Roadmap, Feature requests)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs) (Get the news fast)
- [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/Strapi-616063331867161)
- [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/strapi) (Learn from Video Tutorials)

## Migration

Follow our [migration guides](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/wiki) on the wiki to keep your projects up-to-date.

## Roadmap

Check out our [roadmap](https://portal.productboard.com/strapi) to get informed of the latest features released and the upcoming ones. You may also give us insights and vote for a specific feature.

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE.md) Copyright (c) 2015-2019 [Strapi Solutions](https://strapi.io/).
