docs/3.0.0-beta.x/installation/docker.md, before:

# Installing using Docker

If you're already familiar with Docker, you are probably looking for our official Docker images over [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/strapi/strapi).

[[toc]]

## Step 1: Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file

This docker-compose defines our database and Strapi service and links them.

:::: tabs

::: tab SQLite
```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    volumes:
      - ./:/srv/app
    ports:
      - "1337:1337"
```
:::

::: tab Postgres
```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    environment:
      DATABASE_CLIENT: postgres
      DATABASE_NAME: strapi
      DATABASE_HOST: postgres
      DATABASE_PORT: 5432
      DATABASE_USERNAME: strapi
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: strapi
    links:
      - postgres:postgres
    volumes:
      - ./app:/srv/app
    ports:
      - "1337:1337"

  postgres:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: strapi
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: strapi
    volumes:
       - ./data:/data/postgres
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"
```
:::

::: tab MongoDB
```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    environment:
      DATABASE_CLIENT: mongo
      DATABASE_NAME: strapi
      DATABASE_HOST: mongo
      DATABASE_PORT: 27017
      DATABASE_USERNAME: strapi
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: strapi
    links:
      - mongo:mongo
    volumes:
      - ./app:/srv/app
    ports:
      - "1337:1337"

  mongo:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME: strapi
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD: strapi
    volumes:
       - ./data/db:/data/db
    ports:
      - "27017:27017"
```
:::

::::

## Step 2: Pull the latest images

```
docker-compose pull
```

## Step 3: Run the stack

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Commit message:

docs: update docker compose instruction
Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

docs/3.0.0-beta.x/installation/docker.md, after:

# Installing using Docker

If you're already familiar with Docker, you are probably looking for our official Docker images over [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/strapi/strapi).

[[toc]]

## Step 1: Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file

Create this `docker-compose.yaml` file in an empty folder. <br>
A fresh new Strapi application will be created where the `docker-compose.yaml` file is located.

This docker-compose defines our database and Strapi service and links them.

:::: tabs

::: tab SQLite

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    volumes:
      - ./:/srv/app
    ports:
      - '1337:1337'
```

:::

::: tab Postgres

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    environment:
      DATABASE_CLIENT: postgres
      DATABASE_NAME: strapi
      DATABASE_HOST: postgres
      DATABASE_PORT: 5432
      DATABASE_USERNAME: strapi
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: strapi
    links:
      - postgres:postgres
    volumes:
      - ./app:/srv/app
    ports:
      - '1337:1337'

  postgres:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: strapi
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: strapi
    volumes:
      - ./data:/data/postgres
    ports:
      - '5432:5432'
```

:::

::: tab MongoDB

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  strapi:
    image: strapi/strapi
    environment:
      DATABASE_CLIENT: mongo
      DATABASE_NAME: strapi
      DATABASE_HOST: mongo
      DATABASE_PORT: 27017
      DATABASE_USERNAME: strapi
      DATABASE_PASSWORD: strapi
    links:
      - mongo:mongo
    volumes:
      - ./app:/srv/app
    ports:
      - '1337:1337'

  mongo:
    image: postgres
    environment:
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME: strapi
      MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD: strapi
    volumes:
      - ./data/db:/data/db
    ports:
      - '27017:27017'
```

:::

::::

## Step 2: Pull the latest images

```
docker-compose pull
```

## Step 3: Run the stack

```
docker-compose up -d
```
