.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG_REPORT.md, before:

---
name: 🐛 Bug Report
about: Create a report to help us improve 🤔.
---

<!-- ⚠️ If you do not respect this template your issue will be closed. -->

<!-- =============================================================================== -->
<!-- ⚠️ If you are not using the current Strapi release, you will be asked to update. -->
<!-- Please see the wiki for guides on upgrading to the latest release. -->
<!-- =============================================================================== -->

<!-- ⚠️ Make sure to browse the opened and closed issues before submitting your issue. -->

<!-- ⚠️ Before writing your issue make sure you are using:-->
<!-- Node 10.x.x -->
<!-- npm 6.x.x -->
<!-- The latest version of Strapi. -->

**Informations**
- **Node.js version**: <!-- Please ensure you are using the Node LTS version (v10) -->
- **NPM version**: 
- **Strapi version**: <!-- Please make sure you are on the latest version -->
- **Database**: 
- **Operating system**: 
- **(Optional) Link to your Project**: <!-- To speedup support, if you have your project on github/gitlab you can provide a link -->


**What is the current behavior?**



**Steps to reproduce the problem**



**What is the expected behavior?**



**Suggested solutions**

Commit message:

Update GH issue and PR template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG_REPORT.md, after:

---
name: 🐛 Bug Report
about: Create an issue report.
---

<!--
Hello 👋 Thank you for submitting an issue.

Before you start, please make sure your issue is understandable and reproducible.
To me it readable please use a well markdown syntax.

https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/
-->

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Steps to reproduce the behavior**
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Code snippets**
If applicable, add code samples to help explain your problem.

**System**
- Node.js version: <!-- Please ensure you are using the Node LTS version (v10) -->
- NPM version:
- Strapi version: <!-- Please make sure you are on the latest version -->
- Database:
- Operating system:

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
