docs/3.x.x/guides/filters.md, before:

# Filters

See the [filters' concepts](../concepts/concepts.md#filters) for details.

::: note
By default, the filters can only be used from `find` endpoints generated by the Content Type Builder and the [CLI](../cli/CLI.md). If you need to implement a filters system somewhere else, read the [programmatic usage](#programmatic-usage) section.
:::

## Available operators

The available operators are separated in four different categories:
 - [Filters](#filters)
 - [Sort](#sort)
 - [Limit](#limit)
 - [Start](#start)

### Filters

Easily filter results according to fields values.

 - `=`: Equals
 - `_ne`: Not equals
 - `_lt`: Lower than
 - `_gt`: Greater than
 - `_lte`: Lower than or equal to
 - `_gte`: Greater than or equal to
 - `_contains`: Contains
 - `_containss`: Contains case sensitive

#### Examples

Find users having `John` as first name.

`GET /users?firstName=John`

Find products having a price equal or greater than `3`.

`GET /products?price_gte=3`

::: note
You can't use filter to have specific results inside relation, like "Find users and only their posts older than yesterday" as example. If you need it, you can modify or create your own service or use [GraphQL](./graphql.md#query-api).
:::

::: warning
This filter isn't available for `upload` plugin.
:::

### Sort

Sort according to a specific field.

#### Example

Sort users by email.

 - ASC: `GET /users?_sort=email:ASC`
 - DESC: `GET /users?_sort=email:DESC`

### Limit

Limit the size of the returned results.

#### Example

Limit the result length to 30.

`GET /users?_limit=30`

### Start

Skip a specific number of entries (especially useful for pagination).

#### Example

Get the second page of results.

`GET /users?_start=10&_limit=10`

## Programmatic usage

Requests system can be implemented in custom code sections.

### Extracting requests filters

To extract the filters from a JavaScript object or a request, you need to call the [`strapi.utils.models.convertParams` helper](../api-reference/reference.md#strapiutils).

::: note
The returned objects are formatted according to the ORM used by the model.
:::

#### Example

**Path —** `./api/user/controllers/User.js`.

```js
// Define a list of params.
const params = {
  '_limit': 20,
  '_sort': 'email'
};

// Convert params.
const formattedParams = strapi.utils.models.convertParams('user', params); // { limit: 20, sort: 'email' }
```

### Query usage

#### Example

**Path —** `./api/user/controllers/User.js`.

```js
module.exports = {

  find: async (ctx) => {
    // Convert params.
    const formattedParams = strapi.utils.models.convertParams('user', ctx.request.query);

    // Get the list of users according to the request query.
    const filteredUsers = await User
      .find()
      .where(formattedParams.where)
      .sort(formattedParams.sort)
      .skip(formattedParams.start)
      .limit(formattedParams.limit);

    // Finally, send the results to the client.
    ctx.body = filteredUsers;
  };
};
```

Commit message:

Add _in array query example

docs/3.x.x/guides/filters.md, after:

# Filters

See the [filters' concepts](../concepts/concepts.md#filters) for details.

::: note
By default, the filters can only be used from `find` endpoints generated by the Content Type Builder and the [CLI](../cli/CLI.md). If you need to implement a filters system somewhere else, read the [programmatic usage](#programmatic-usage) section.
:::

## Available operators

The available operators are separated in four different categories:
 - [Filters](#filters)
 - [Sort](#sort)
 - [Limit](#limit)
 - [Start](#start)

### Filters

Easily filter results according to fields values.

 - `=`: Equals
 - `_in`: Include in array
 - `_ne`: Not equals
 - `_lt`: Lower than
 - `_gt`: Greater than
 - `_lte`: Lower than or equal to
 - `_gte`: Greater than or equal to
 - `_contains`: Contains
 - `_containss`: Contains case sensitive

#### Examples

Find users having `John` as first name.

`GET /users?firstName=John`

Find products having a price equal or greater than `3`.

`GET /products?price_gte=3`

Find multiple product with id 3, 6, 8
`GET /products?id_in=3&id_in=6&id_in=8`

::: note
You can't use filter to have specific results inside relation, like "Find users and only their posts older than yesterday" as example. If you need it, you can modify or create your own service or use [GraphQL](./graphql.md#query-api).
:::

::: warning
This filter isn't available for `upload` plugin.
:::

### Sort

Sort according to a specific field.

#### Example

Sort users by email.

 - ASC: `GET /users?_sort=email:ASC`
 - DESC: `GET /users?_sort=email:DESC`

### Limit

Limit the size of the returned results.

#### Example

Limit the result length to 30.

`GET /users?_limit=30`

### Start

Skip a specific number of entries (especially useful for pagination).

#### Example

Get the second page of results.

`GET /users?_start=10&_limit=10`

## Programmatic usage

Requests system can be implemented in custom code sections.

### Extracting requests filters

To extract the filters from a JavaScript object or a request, you need to call the [`strapi.utils.models.convertParams` helper](../api-reference/reference.md#strapiutils).

::: note
The returned objects are formatted according to the ORM used by the model.
:::

#### Example

**Path —** `./api/user/controllers/User.js`.

```js
// Define a list of params.
const params = {
  '_limit': 20,
  '_sort': 'email'
};

// Convert params.
const formattedParams = strapi.utils.models.convertParams('user', params); // { limit: 20, sort: 'email' }
```

### Query usage

#### Example

**Path —** `./api/user/controllers/User.js`.

```js
module.exports = {

  find: async (ctx) => {
    // Convert params.
    const formattedParams = strapi.utils.models.convertParams('user', ctx.request.query);

    // Get the list of users according to the request query.
    const filteredUsers = await User
      .find()
      .where(formattedParams.where)
      .sort(formattedParams.sort)
      .skip(formattedParams.start)
      .limit(formattedParams.limit);

    // Finally, send the results to the client.
    ctx.body = filteredUsers;
  };
};
```
