docs/docs/core/helper-plugin/hooks/use-fetch-client.mdx, before:

---
title: useFetchClient
description: API reference for the useFetchClient hook in Strapi
tags:
  - hooks
  - axios
  - data
  - helper-plugin
---

## Usage

The following example shows a basic way to use the `useFetchClient` hook to make a get request to a Strapi backend endpoint:

```jsx
import {useState} from "react"
import { useFetchClient } from '@strapi/helper-plugin';

const Component = () => {
    const [items, setItems] = useState([]);
    const { get } = useFetchClient();
    const requestURL = "/some-endpoint";

    const handleGetData = async () => {
        const { data } = await get(requestURL);
        setItems(data.items);
    }

    return(
        <div>
            <div>
                {
                    items && items.map(item => <h2 key={item.uuid}>{item.name}</h2>))
                }
            </div>
            <button onClick={handleGetData}>Show Items</button>
        </div>
    )
}
```

## Methods

Essentially, this is an abstraction around the axios instance exposed by a hook. It provides a simple interface to handle API calls to the Strapi backend.
It handles request cancellations inside the hook with an [`AbortController`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortController). This is typically triggered when the component is unmounted so all the requests that it is currently making are aborted.

The hook exposes four methods:

- **get(url, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `GET` request to the Strapi backend with an optional configuration `object` passed as second parameter.
- **post(url, data, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `POST` request with the required data `object` to the Strapi backend with the optional configuration `object` passed as third parameter.
- **put(url, data, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `PUT` request with the required data `object` to the Strapi backend with the optional configuration `object` passed as third parameter.
- **del(url, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `DELETE` request to the Strapi backend with an optional configuration `object` passed as second parameter.

## Implementation details

The following information is the internal additions we've added to the axios instance via two request interceptors. As well as an explanation of the `baseUrl`.

### Base URL

The default URL is the one defined in the _getFetchClient_ utility

### Interceptors

#### Request

The request interceptor adds the following parameters to the header:

```js
{
    Authorization: `Bearer <AUTH_TOKEN>`,
}
```

#### Response

If everything works correctly, the response is returned as it comes from the backend. However, if it contains a **status code of 401** the authentication details will be removed from
the application storage and the window will be reloaded.

:::caution
Have this in mind if using this hook in pages where the auth token is not available, such as `login`, because it will create an infinite loop. See the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section for more information.
:::

## Further Reading

- [axios instance API](https://axios-http.com/docs/instance)
- [AbortController](https://axios-http.com/docs/cancellation)

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication problems

Trying to access a protected route from a context where the auth token is not available may lead to an infinite loop due to the response interceptor that
reloads the page when obtaining a 401 response. One option to avoid this from happening is to not consider a 401 response as an error, see below:

```js
const {
  data: { data: properties },
} = await get(`/protected-endpoint`, {
  validateStatus: (status) => status < 500,
});
```

Commit message:

add a tip to prevent errors in the useFetchClient requestURL format

docs/docs/core/helper-plugin/hooks/use-fetch-client.mdx, after:

---
title: useFetchClient
description: API reference for the useFetchClient hook in Strapi
tags:
  - hooks
  - axios
  - data
  - helper-plugin
---

## Usage

The following example shows a basic way to use the `useFetchClient` hook to make a get request to a Strapi backend endpoint:

```jsx
import {useState} from "react"
import { useFetchClient } from '@strapi/helper-plugin';

const Component = () => {
    const [items, setItems] = useState([]);
    const { get } = useFetchClient();
    const requestURL = "/some-endpoint";

    const handleGetData = async () => {
        const { data } = await get(requestURL);
        setItems(data.items);
    }

    return(
        <div>
            <div>
                {
                    items && items.map(item => <h2 key={item.uuid}>{item.name}</h2>))
                }
            </div>
            <button onClick={handleGetData}>Show Items</button>
        </div>
    )
}
```

:::tip
Remember to use a relative path for your requestURL, following this format `/{yourRelativePath}`
:::

## Methods

Essentially, this is an abstraction around the axios instance exposed by a hook. It provides a simple interface to handle API calls to the Strapi backend.
It handles request cancellations inside the hook with an [`AbortController`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortController). This is typically triggered when the component is unmounted so all the requests that it is currently making are aborted.

The hook exposes four methods:

- **get(url, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `GET` request to the Strapi backend with an optional configuration `object` passed as second parameter.
- **post(url, data, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `POST` request with the required data `object` to the Strapi backend with the optional configuration `object` passed as third parameter.
- **put(url, data, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `PUT` request with the required data `object` to the Strapi backend with the optional configuration `object` passed as third parameter.
- **del(url, config)**: requires a relative url (`string`) and makes a `DELETE` request to the Strapi backend with an optional configuration `object` passed as second parameter.

## Implementation details

The following information is the internal additions we've added to the axios instance via two request interceptors. As well as an explanation of the `baseUrl`.

### Base URL

The default URL is the one defined in the _getFetchClient_ utility

### Interceptors

#### Request

The request interceptor adds the following parameters to the header:

```js
{
    Authorization: `Bearer <AUTH_TOKEN>`,
}
```

#### Response

If everything works correctly, the response is returned as it comes from the backend. However, if it contains a **status code of 401** the authentication details will be removed from
the application storage and the window will be reloaded.

:::caution
Have this in mind if using this hook in pages where the auth token is not available, such as `login`, because it will create an infinite loop. See the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section for more information.
:::

## Further Reading

- [axios instance API](https://axios-http.com/docs/instance)
- [AbortController](https://axios-http.com/docs/cancellation)

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication problems

Trying to access a protected route from a context where the auth token is not available may lead to an infinite loop due to the response interceptor that
reloads the page when obtaining a 401 response. One option to avoid this from happening is to not consider a 401 response as an error, see below:

```js
const {
  data: { data: properties },
} = await get(`/protected-endpoint`, {
  validateStatus: (status) => status < 500,
});
```
