docs/docs/api/Strapi.mdx, before:

---
title: Strapi
slug: /api/Strapi
tags:
- class
- public
- global

toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---
import Type from '@site/docs/api/components/Type';

# Strapi

:::info

Current state: **Stable**

:::

The Strapi class is the main object used in Strapi projects.
An instance of Strapi class is available as a global in any Strapi project: `global.strapi`.

## Class: Strapi

### `new Strapi(opts)`

- `opts`: <Type>Object</Type> Options that can be used on Strapi startup
  - `autoReload`: <Type>Boolean</Type> **Default:** true
    - If false, deactivate auto reload
    - If you modify any file in your Strapi project, it reloads your nodejs app
    - If any content-type is changed, it will reload the nodejs app
  - `serveAdminPanel`: <Type>Boolean</Type> **Default:** true
    - Should the admin panel be loaded and serve as a web client
    - The admin panel build will not be delivered if false
  - `appDir`: <Type>String</Type>  **Default:** `process.cwd()`
    - The directory relative or absolute path where Strapi will write every file (schemas, generated APIs, controllers or services)
  - `distDir`: <Type>String</Type>  **Default:** appDir value
    - The directory relative or absolute path where Strapi will read configurations, schemas and any compiled code

Instances of the Strapi class can be created using the new keyword.

```javascript
const strapiInstance = new Strapi();
```

### `strapi.container`

This is where all registries are stored.

See [Container](./container).

Commit message:

chore(docs): Strapi Class - dirs

docs/docs/api/Strapi.mdx, after:

---
title: Strapi
slug: /api/Strapi
tags:
- class
- public
- global

toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---
import Type from '@site/docs/api/components/Type';

# Strapi

:::info

Current state: **Stable**

:::

The Strapi class is the main object used in Strapi projects.
An instance of Strapi class is available as a global in any Strapi project: `global.strapi`.

## Class: Strapi

### `new Strapi(opts)`

- `opts`: <Type>Object</Type> Options that can be used on Strapi startup
  - `autoReload`: <Type>Boolean</Type> **Default:** true
    - If false, deactivate auto reload
    - If you modify any file in your Strapi project, it reloads your nodejs app
    - If any content-type is changed, it will reload the nodejs app
  - `serveAdminPanel`: <Type>Boolean</Type> **Default:** true
    - Should the admin panel be loaded and serve as a web client
    - The admin panel build will not be delivered if false
  - `appDir`: <Type>String</Type>  **Default:** `process.cwd()`
    - The directory relative or absolute path where Strapi will write every file (schemas, generated APIs, controllers or services)
  - `distDir`: <Type>String</Type>  **Default:** appDir value
    - The directory relative or absolute path where Strapi will read configurations, schemas and any compiled code

Instances of the Strapi class can be created using the new keyword.

```javascript
const strapiInstance = new Strapi();
```

### `strapi.container`

This is where all registries are stored.

See [Container](./container).

### `strapi.dirs`

Stored paths of file system.

- `dirs.dist`: <Type>[StrapiPathObject](#strapipathobject)</Type>
  - Build folder
- `dirs.app`: <Type>[StrapiPathObject](#strapipathobject)</Type>
  - Sources folder
- `dirs.static`: <Type>Object</Type> Define path to directories involving web client display
  - `public`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder to serve publicly (like files, images, etc..)

#### StrapiPathObject
- `root`: <Type>String</Type> Root path
- `src`: <Type>String</Type> Sources route path to project files
- `api`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder containing project developers' API files (content-types, controllers, services, routes, etc..)
- `components`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder containing project developers' components
- `policies`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder where the Strapi project developers' policies are stored
  - A set of functions that check the state of the data and prevent the access to the API accordingly
- `middlewares`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder where the Strapi project developers' middlewares are stored
  - A set of function that wrap around routes and requests
- `config`:  <Type>String</Type> Path to the folder containing project developers' config files
