docs/3.x.x/plugin-development/quick-start.md, before:

# Quick start

To facilitate the development of a plugin, we drastically reduce the amount of commands necessary to install the entire development environment. Before getting started, you need to have Node.js (v8)  and npm (v5) installed.

## Development Environment Setup

To setup the development environment please **follow the instructions below:**

1. [Fork the repository](https://github.com/strapi/strapi) to your own GitHub account.
2. Clone it to your computer `git clone git@github.com:strapi/strapi.git`.
3. Run `npm run setup` at the root of the directory.

You can run `npm run setup:build` to build the plugins' admin (the setup time will be longer)

::: note
If the installation failed, please remove the global packages related to Strapi. The command `npm ls strapi` will help you to find where your packages are installed globally.
:::

## Plugin development Setup

Create a development project

1. Go to a folder on your computer `cd /path/to/my/folder`.
2. Create a new project `strapi new myDevelopmentProject --dev`.

To generate a new plugin **run the following commands:**
1. In your project folder `cd myDevelopmentProject && strapi generate:plugin my-plugin`.
2. Link the `strapi-helper-plugin` dependency in your project folder `cd pathToMyProject/myDevelopmentProject/plugins/my-plugin && npm link strapi-helper-plugin`.
3. Link the `strapi-helper-plugin` dependency in the `analytics` plugin folder `cd pathToMyProject/myDevelopmentProject/plugins/analytics && npm link strapi-helper-plugin`.
4. Start the server in the admin folder `cd pathToMyProject/myDevelopmentProject/admin && npm start` and go to the following url [http://localhost:4000/admin](http://localhost:4000/admin).
5. In a new terminal window open at the root of your project launch your Strapi server `strapi start`.


Your are now ready to develop your own plugin and live-test your updates!

Commit message:

Bugfix - Plugin Quick Start does not work as expected
If a user follows the directions in the plugin documentation quick start, several errors will show up, as documented in:

https://github.com/strapi/strapi/issues/1116
https://github.com/strapi/strapi/issues/1972

This updates the documentation so that a user new to the project will be able to have success. It follows the comments from https://github.com/strapi/strapi/issues/1972#issuecomment-422321650 & https://github.com/strapi/strapi/issues/1116#issuecomment-386710389 to re-write the docs to match expected behavior.

docs/3.x.x/plugin-development/quick-start.md, after:

# Quick start

To facilitate the development of a plugin, we drastically reduce the amount of commands necessary to install the entire development environment. Before getting started, you need to have Node.js (v8)  and npm (v5) installed.

## Development Environment Setup

To setup the development environment please **follow the instructions below:**

1. [Fork the repository](https://github.com/strapi/strapi) to your own GitHub account.
2. Clone it to your computer `git clone git@github.com:strapi/strapi.git`. (or your fork)
3. Run `cd strapi && npm run setup`

You can run `npm run setup:build` to build the plugins' admin (the setup time will be longer)

Create a development project

1. Create a new project `cd .. && strapi new myDevelopmentProject --dev`.
2. `cd myDevelopmentProject && strapi start` To start the strapi project

::: note
If the installation failed, please remove the global packages related to Strapi. The command `npm ls strapi` will help you to find where your packages are installed globally.
:::

## Plugin development Setup

In a new terminal window:

1. Generate a new plugin: `cd /path/to/myDevelopmentProject && strapi generate:plugin my-plugin`
2. Install admin dependencies and build: `cd /admin && npm setup`
3. `npm start`

When finished with plugin modifications:

1. `cd /path/to/myDevelopmentProject && npm run setup ---plugins`

To rebuild plugins:

Run this inside the cloned or forked repo of `strapi`
1. `cd strapi && npm run setup:build`


Your are now ready to develop your own plugin and live-test your updates! The working local URI should be localhost:4000/admin.
