docs/v3.x/getting-started/installation.md, before:

# ⚙️ Installation

### Installation guides

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/cli.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 256 271"><g><path d="M116.553,0 L0,67.953 L0,98.096 L49.665,127.882 L91.366,105.163 L91.366,78.74 L179.665,28.034 L241.711,63.77 L241.637,135.222 L156.567,184.231 L128.082,173.694 L90.165,197.882 L91.128,255.785 L117.233,270.858 L234.743,203.897 L234.743,163.65 L221.531,170.761 L221.531,196.347 L117.267,255.461 L104.352,248.005 L103.644,205.48 L128.114,189.128 L157.607,199.658 L256,142.912 L255.065,55.656 L179.678,12.633 L78.016,71.009 L78.016,97.419 L49.824,112.41 L13.35,90.536 L13.35,75.622 L116.243,15.636 L137.841,29.399 L150.89,21.886 L116.553,0 Z M186.0696,71.0918 L164.1876,84.3678 L164.7436,109.9558 L187.1816,122.2678 L209.0636,108.9918 L208.5076,83.4048 L186.0696,71.0918 Z M186.3206,82.6508 L198.6226,89.4018 L198.9276,103.4308 L186.9306,110.7088 L174.6286,103.9588 L174.3236,89.9298 L186.3206,82.6508 Z M73.701,141.0235 L70.738,135.4095 C70.086,134.1755 68.558,133.7035 67.324,134.3545 L47.931,144.5855 C46.697,145.2365 46.224,146.7655 46.876,148.0005 L49.84,153.6175 C50.491,154.8515 52.02,155.3245 53.254,154.6725 L72.645,144.4385 C73.88,143.7865 74.352,142.2575 73.701,141.0235 M84.9168,158.0703 L81.9548,152.4543 C81.2838,151.1813 79.6868,150.7253 78.4438,151.4513 L45.7398,170.5723 C44.5718,171.2563 44.1488,172.7373 44.7798,173.9333 L47.7418,179.5493 C48.4138,180.8223 50.0108,181.2783 51.2528,180.5523 L83.9578,161.4313 C85.1248,160.7483 85.5478,159.2673 84.9168,158.0703 M87.9705,169.6055 L49.5225,191.7065 C48.3435,192.3835 47.9115,193.8735 48.5475,195.0765 L51.5105,200.6915 C52.1785,201.9575 53.7635,202.4165 55.0045,201.7035 L93.4525,179.6025 C94.6325,178.9245 95.0635,177.4345 94.4285,176.2315 L91.4645,170.6165 C90.7965,169.3515 89.2115,168.8925 87.9705,169.6055" fill="#FFF"/></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>CLI</template>
		<template #description>
			Create a project in your local machine using the CLI.
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/docker.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="34" height="23"><g fill="#fff" fill-rule="evenodd"><path d="M18.8017 10.5442h3.4333v-3.101h-3.4333zM14.745 10.5442h3.4333v-3.101H14.745v3.101zM10.6892 10.5442h3.4325v-3.101h-3.4334v3.101zM6.6316 10.5442h3.4334v-3.101H6.6316zM2.5759 10.5442h3.4324v-3.101H2.576v3.101zM6.6326 6.8226h3.4324v-3.101H6.6316v3.101zM10.6892 6.8226h3.4325v-3.101h-3.4334v3.101zM14.745 6.8226h3.4333v-3.101H14.745v3.101zM14.745 3.101h3.4333V0H14.745v3.101z"></path><path d="M28.752 8.3043c-.1708-1.2412-.8667-2.317-2.1326-3.2901l-.727-.482-.4866.7243c-.6197.9309-.9318 2.2216-.829 3.46.046.4351.19 1.2145.6408 1.8993-.4498.2405-1.3366.572-2.5144.549H.1285l-.045.2589c-.2111 1.2439-.2075 5.1252 2.329 8.1087 1.9269 2.2675 4.8168 3.4178 8.5889 3.4178 8.1757 0 14.2245-3.741 17.0565-10.5406 1.1136.022 3.5132.0064 4.7461-2.3326.0312-.0533.1056-.1947.3204-.638l.1184-.2424-.693-.46c-.75-.4984-2.4723-.681-3.7979-.4323z"></path></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>Docker</template>
		<template #description>
			Has everything you need to get started; no need to install, configure, or manage additional packages on your server.
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/digitalocean-one-click.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg width="178" height="177" viewBox="0 0 178 177" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="#fff" fill-rule="evenodd"><path d="M89 176.5v-34.2c36.2 0 64.3-35.9 50.4-74-5.1-14-16.4-25.3-30.5-30.4-38.1-13.8-74 14.2-74 50.4H.8C.8 30.6 56.6-14.4 117.1 4.5c26.4 8.3 47.5 29.3 55.7 55.7 18.9 60.5-26.1 116.3-83.8 116.3z" fill-rule="nonzero"></path><path d="M89.1 142.5H55v-34.1h34.1zM55 168.6H28.9v-26.1H55zM28.9 142.5H7v-21.9h21.9v21.9z"></path></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>DigitalOcean One-Click</template>
		<template #description>
			Your project setup in one click with DigitalOcean
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/platformsh.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 50 50"><defs><style>.bcac695a-a0a4-4100-84fd-61ecc421091c{fill:#0a0a0a;}.fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c{fill:#fff;}</style></defs><g id="b5f9bb49-1614-4b22-8c04-f5182c1803f5" data-name="Layer 2"><g id="b2a28560-5e48-4435-accd-e149b4f96cc0" data-name="Layer 1"><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="10.72" width="28.55" height="11.35"/><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="35.42" width="28.55" height="3.86"/><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="25.74" width="28.55" height="5.82"/></g></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>Platform.sh One-Click</template>
		<template #description>
			Your project setup in one click with Platform.sh
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

### Deployment guides

For a more detailed overview of deployment please see the [related documentation](./deployment.md).

Commit message:

Docs review (#6848)
* docs: improve getting started

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

* docs: review quickstart video and some steps

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

* docs: review concepts

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

* docs: review email - upload plugins

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

* fix: PR feedback

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

* fix: PR feedback type conflict

Signed-off-by: Jim LAURIE <j.laurie6993@gmail.com>

docs/v3.x/getting-started/installation.md, after:

# Installation

Strapi gives you many possible installation options for your project or application. Strapi can be installed on your computer or services such as DigitalOcean, Amazon AWS, or Platform.sh. The following documentation covers many different options to install Strapi and getting started on using it.

::: tip
For a more detailed overview of deployment please see the [related documentation](./deployment.md).
:::

## Installation guides

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/cli.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 256 271"><g><path d="M116.553,0 L0,67.953 L0,98.096 L49.665,127.882 L91.366,105.163 L91.366,78.74 L179.665,28.034 L241.711,63.77 L241.637,135.222 L156.567,184.231 L128.082,173.694 L90.165,197.882 L91.128,255.785 L117.233,270.858 L234.743,203.897 L234.743,163.65 L221.531,170.761 L221.531,196.347 L117.267,255.461 L104.352,248.005 L103.644,205.48 L128.114,189.128 L157.607,199.658 L256,142.912 L255.065,55.656 L179.678,12.633 L78.016,71.009 L78.016,97.419 L49.824,112.41 L13.35,90.536 L13.35,75.622 L116.243,15.636 L137.841,29.399 L150.89,21.886 L116.553,0 Z M186.0696,71.0918 L164.1876,84.3678 L164.7436,109.9558 L187.1816,122.2678 L209.0636,108.9918 L208.5076,83.4048 L186.0696,71.0918 Z M186.3206,82.6508 L198.6226,89.4018 L198.9276,103.4308 L186.9306,110.7088 L174.6286,103.9588 L174.3236,89.9298 L186.3206,82.6508 Z M73.701,141.0235 L70.738,135.4095 C70.086,134.1755 68.558,133.7035 67.324,134.3545 L47.931,144.5855 C46.697,145.2365 46.224,146.7655 46.876,148.0005 L49.84,153.6175 C50.491,154.8515 52.02,155.3245 53.254,154.6725 L72.645,144.4385 C73.88,143.7865 74.352,142.2575 73.701,141.0235 M84.9168,158.0703 L81.9548,152.4543 C81.2838,151.1813 79.6868,150.7253 78.4438,151.4513 L45.7398,170.5723 C44.5718,171.2563 44.1488,172.7373 44.7798,173.9333 L47.7418,179.5493 C48.4138,180.8223 50.0108,181.2783 51.2528,180.5523 L83.9578,161.4313 C85.1248,160.7483 85.5478,159.2673 84.9168,158.0703 M87.9705,169.6055 L49.5225,191.7065 C48.3435,192.3835 47.9115,193.8735 48.5475,195.0765 L51.5105,200.6915 C52.1785,201.9575 53.7635,202.4165 55.0045,201.7035 L93.4525,179.6025 C94.6325,178.9245 95.0635,177.4345 94.4285,176.2315 L91.4645,170.6165 C90.7965,169.3515 89.2115,168.8925 87.9705,169.6055" fill="#FFF"/></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>CLI</template>
		<template #description>
			Create a project in your local machine using the CLI.
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/docker.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="34" height="23"><g fill="#fff" fill-rule="evenodd"><path d="M18.8017 10.5442h3.4333v-3.101h-3.4333zM14.745 10.5442h3.4333v-3.101H14.745v3.101zM10.6892 10.5442h3.4325v-3.101h-3.4334v3.101zM6.6316 10.5442h3.4334v-3.101H6.6316zM2.5759 10.5442h3.4324v-3.101H2.576v3.101zM6.6326 6.8226h3.4324v-3.101H6.6316v3.101zM10.6892 6.8226h3.4325v-3.101h-3.4334v3.101zM14.745 6.8226h3.4333v-3.101H14.745v3.101zM14.745 3.101h3.4333V0H14.745v3.101z"></path><path d="M28.752 8.3043c-.1708-1.2412-.8667-2.317-2.1326-3.2901l-.727-.482-.4866.7243c-.6197.9309-.9318 2.2216-.829 3.46.046.4351.19 1.2145.6408 1.8993-.4498.2405-1.3366.572-2.5144.549H.1285l-.045.2589c-.2111 1.2439-.2075 5.1252 2.329 8.1087 1.9269 2.2675 4.8168 3.4178 8.5889 3.4178 8.1757 0 14.2245-3.741 17.0565-10.5406 1.1136.022 3.5132.0064 4.7461-2.3326.0312-.0533.1056-.1947.3204-.638l.1184-.2424-.693-.46c-.75-.4984-2.4723-.681-3.7979-.4323z"></path></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>Docker</template>
		<template #description>
			Has everything you need to get started; no need to install, configure, or manage additional packages on your server.
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/digitalocean-one-click.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg width="178" height="177" viewBox="0 0 178 177" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="#fff" fill-rule="evenodd"><path d="M89 176.5v-34.2c36.2 0 64.3-35.9 50.4-74-5.1-14-16.4-25.3-30.5-30.4-38.1-13.8-74 14.2-74 50.4H.8C.8 30.6 56.6-14.4 117.1 4.5c26.4 8.3 47.5 29.3 55.7 55.7 18.9 60.5-26.1 116.3-83.8 116.3z" fill-rule="nonzero"></path><path d="M89.1 142.5H55v-34.1h34.1zM55 168.6H28.9v-26.1H55zM28.9 142.5H7v-21.9h21.9v21.9z"></path></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>DigitalOcean One-Click</template>
		<template #description>
			Your project setup in one click with DigitalOcean
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>

<div>
	<InstallLink link="../installation/platformsh.html">
		<template #icon>
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 50 50"><defs><style>.bcac695a-a0a4-4100-84fd-61ecc421091c{fill:#0a0a0a;}.fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c{fill:#fff;}</style></defs><g id="b5f9bb49-1614-4b22-8c04-f5182c1803f5" data-name="Layer 2"><g id="b2a28560-5e48-4435-accd-e149b4f96cc0" data-name="Layer 1"><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="10.72" width="28.55" height="11.35"/><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="35.42" width="28.55" height="3.86"/><rect class="fc8dd422-fb02-4822-a57e-c20c8b5eef7c" x="10.73" y="25.74" width="28.55" height="5.82"/></g></g></svg>
		</template>
		<template #title>Platform.sh One-Click</template>
		<template #description>
			Your project setup in one click with Platform.sh
		</template>
	</InstallLink>
</div>
