packages/plugins/sentry/README.md, before:

# Strapi plugin Sentry

The official plugin to track Strapi errors with Sentry.

## Features

- Initialize a Sentry instance when your Strapi app starts
- Send errors encountered in your application's end API to Sentry
- Attach useful metadata to Sentry events, to help you with debugging
- Expose a global Sentry service

## Installation

To install this plugin, you need to add an NPM dependency to your Strapi application.

```sh
# Using Yarn
yarn add @strapi/plugin-sentry

# Or using NPM
npm install @strapi/plugin-sentry
```

## Configuration

| property       | type (default)   | description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dsn`          | string (`null`)  | Your Sentry data source name ([see Sentry docs](https://docs.sentry.io/product/sentry-basics/dsn-explainer/)).                                                                           |
| `sendMetadata` | boolean (`true`) | Whether the plugin should attach additional information (like OS, browser, etc.) to the events sent to Sentry.                                                                           |
| `init`         | object (`{}`)    | A config object that is passed directly to Sentry during the `Sentry.init()`. See all available options [on Sentry's docs](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/node/configuration/options/) |

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      dsn: env('SENTRY_DSN'),
      sendMetadata: true,
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

## Global Sentry service

You can access a Sentry service throughout your app.

```js
const sentryService = strapi.plugin('sentry').service('sentry');
```

This service exposes the following methods:

### `sendError(error, configureScope)`

Use it to manually send errors to Sentry. The `configureScope` is optional, it allows you to customize the error event. Read more about Sentry's scope system [on their docs](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/node/enriching-events/scopes/#configuring-the-scope).

**Example**

```js
try {
  // Your code here
} catch (error) {
  // Either send a simple error
  strapi
    .plugin('sentry')
    .service('sentry')
    .sendError(error);

  // Or send an error with a customized Sentry scope
  strapi
    .plugin('sentry')
    .service('sentry')
    .sendError(error, (scope, sentryInstance) => {
      // Customize the scope here
      scope.setTag('my_custom_tag', 'Tag value');
    });
  throw error;
}
```

### `getInstance()`

Use it if you need direct access to the Sentry instance, which should already already be initialized. It's useful if `sendError` doesn't suit your needs.

**Example**

```js
const sentryInstance = strapi
  .plugin('sentry')
  .service('sentry')
  .getInstance();
```

## Disabling for non-production environments

The plugin will only send errors to Sentry when the `dsn` config property is set. If the `dsn` property is set to a nil value, the Sentry plugin will still be available to use in the running Strapi instance, but the service it will not actually send errors to Sentry.  
When you start Strapi with a nil `dsn` config property, the plugin will print a warning:  
`info: @strapi/plugin-sentry is disabled because no Sentry DSN was provided`

You can make use of that by using the `env` utility to set the `dsn` config property depending on the environment.

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      // Only set `dsn` property in production
      dsn: env('NODE_ENV') === 'production' ? env('SENTRY_DSN') : null,
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

## Disabling altogether

Like every other plugin, you can also disable this plugin in the plugins configuration file. This will cause `strapi.plugins('sentry')` to return undefined.

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: false
  },
  // ...
});
```

Commit message:

apply code review suggestion in packages/plugins/sentry/README.md

packages/plugins/sentry/README.md, after:

# Strapi plugin Sentry

The official plugin to track Strapi errors with Sentry.

## Features

- Initialize a Sentry instance when your Strapi app starts
- Send errors encountered in your application's end API to Sentry
- Attach useful metadata to Sentry events, to help you with debugging
- Expose a global Sentry service

## Installation

To install this plugin, you need to add an NPM dependency to your Strapi application.

```sh
# Using Yarn
yarn add @strapi/plugin-sentry

# Or using NPM
npm install @strapi/plugin-sentry
```

## Configuration

| property       | type (default)   | description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dsn`          | string (`null`)  | Your Sentry data source name ([see Sentry docs](https://docs.sentry.io/product/sentry-basics/dsn-explainer/)).                                                                           |
| `sendMetadata` | boolean (`true`) | Whether the plugin should attach additional information (like OS, browser, etc.) to the events sent to Sentry.                                                                           |
| `init`         | object (`{}`)    | A config object that is passed directly to Sentry during the `Sentry.init()`. See all available options [on Sentry's docs](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/node/configuration/options/) |

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      dsn: env('SENTRY_DSN'),
      sendMetadata: true,
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

## Global Sentry service

You can access a Sentry service throughout your app.

```js
const sentryService = strapi.plugin('sentry').service('sentry');
```

This service exposes the following methods:

### `sendError(error, configureScope)`

Use it to manually send errors to Sentry. The `configureScope` is optional, it allows you to customize the error event. Read more about Sentry's scope system [on their docs](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/node/enriching-events/scopes/#configuring-the-scope).

**Example**

```js
try {
  // Your code here
} catch (error) {
  // Either send a simple error
  strapi
    .plugin('sentry')
    .service('sentry')
    .sendError(error);

  // Or send an error with a customized Sentry scope
  strapi
    .plugin('sentry')
    .service('sentry')
    .sendError(error, (scope, sentryInstance) => {
      // Customize the scope here
      scope.setTag('my_custom_tag', 'Tag value');
    });
  throw error;
}
```

### `getInstance()`

Use it if you need direct access to the Sentry instance, which should already already be initialized. It's useful if `sendError` doesn't suit your needs.

**Example**

```js
const sentryInstance = strapi
  .plugin('sentry')
  .service('sentry')
  .getInstance();
```

## Disabling for non-production environments

If the `dsn` property is set to a nil value (`null` or `undefined`) while `enabled` is true, the Sentry plugin will be available to use in the running Strapi instance, but the service will not actually send errors to Sentry. That allows you to write code that runs on every environment without additional checks, but only send errors to Sentry in production.
  
When you start Strapi with a nil `dsn` config property, the plugin will print a warning:  
`info: @strapi/plugin-sentry is disabled because no Sentry DSN was provided`

You can make use of that by using the `env` utility to set the `dsn` config property depending on the environment.

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      // Only set `dsn` property in production
      dsn: env('NODE_ENV') === 'production' ? env('SENTRY_DSN') : null,
    },
  },
  // ...
});
```

## Disabling altogether

Like every other plugin, you can also disable this plugin in the plugins configuration file. This will cause `strapi.plugins('sentry')` to return undefined.

**Example**

`./config/plugins.js`

```js
module.exports = ({ env }) => ({
  // ...
  sentry: {
    enabled: false
  },
  // ...
});
```
