docs/v3.x/concepts/draft-and-publish.md, before:

# Draft and publish

The draft and publish feature allows you to save your content as a draft, to publish it later.

## Activating and deactivating the draft and publish feature

By default, the draft and publish feature is activated for all newly created collection and single types. It is however possible to deactive the feature at content type level (i.e. it can be activated for one content type, but deactivated for another).

::: warning
If the feature is deactivated while contents are saved as drafts, they will automatically be deleted. Make sure all contents are published before deactivating the feature.
:::

To deactivate the draft and publish mode for a content type:

1. Go the Plugins > Content-Types Builder.
2. Select the collection or single type for which you want the draft and publish feature to be deactivated.
3. Click on the Edit [] button to access the content type's configurations.
4. Click on the "Advanced Settings" tab.
5. In the DRAFT/PUBLISH section, click on the **OFF** button.
6. Click on the **Finish** button to confirm the deactivation of the feature.

[screenshot]

## Switching from draft to published content

By default, each newly created content is a draft, which is indicated on the right of the interface, below the Information box.

[screenshot]

Drafts can be modified and saved at will, until they are ready to be published.

### Publishing a draft

To publish a draft, click on the **Publish** button.

When a content is not in a draft anymore, but a published content, it is indicated on the right of the interface, below the Information box.

[screenshot]

### Unpublishing content

Published contents can be unpublished, switching back to drafts again.

To unpublish content, click on the **Unpublish** button.

Commit message:

Add Caution about relations with non-published contents for Draft and Publish documentation

docs/v3.x/concepts/draft-and-publish.md, after:

# Draft and publish

The draft and publish feature allows you to save your content as a draft, to publish it later.

## Activating and deactivating the draft and publish feature

By default, the draft and publish feature is activated for all newly created collection and single types. It is however possible to deactive the feature at content type level (i.e. it can be activated for one content type, but deactivated for another).

::: warning
If the feature is deactivated while contents are saved as drafts, they will automatically be deleted. Make sure all contents are published before deactivating the feature.
:::

To deactivate the draft and publish mode for a content type:

1. Go the Plugins > Content-Types Builder.
2. Select the collection or single type for which you want the draft and publish feature to be deactivated.
3. Click on the Edit [] button to access the content type's configurations.
4. Click on the "Advanced Settings" tab.
5. In the DRAFT/PUBLISH section, click on the **OFF** button.
6. Click on the **Finish** button to confirm the deactivation of the feature.

[screenshot]

## Switching from draft to published content

By default, each newly created content is a draft, which is indicated on the right of the interface, below the Information box.

[screenshot]

Drafts can be modified and saved at will, until they are ready to be published.

### Publishing a draft

To publish a draft, click on the **Publish** button.

:::caution
Before publishing a draft, make sure it doesn't have relations with other non-published content, otherwise some of the content may not be available through the API.
:::

When a content is not in a draft anymore, but a published content, it is indicated on the right of the interface, below the Information box.

[screenshot]

### Unpublishing content

Published contents can be unpublished, switching back to drafts again.

To unpublish content, click on the **Unpublish** button.
